# Google-Analytics-Customer-Revenue-Prediction
-------------------------------------------------------

# Overview Of Problem
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In every business it was proven about 80–20 rule., this rule tells us 80% of our revenue will be generated by only 20% of our potential customers. So, our goal is to predict the revenue that is going to be generated by those potential customers in the near feature. So that marketing teams will invest appropriate money on promotional strategies to attract potential customers.

The challenge is to analyze a Google Merchandise Store (also known as GStore, where Google swag is sold) customer dataset to predict revenue per customer. Hopefully, the outcome will be more actionable operational changes and a better use of marketing budgets for those companies who choose to use data analysis on top of GA data.

# Data Set
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The dataset is available [here](https://www.kaggle.com/c/ga-customer-revenue-prediction/data)

# Data Analysis
------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the Train dataset we are provided with 12 columns(Features) of data.

 * fullVisitorId : A unique identifier for each user of the Google Merchandise Store.
 * channelGrouping : The channel via which the user came to the Store.
 * date : The date on which the user visited the Store.
 * device : The specifications for the device used to access the Store.
 * geoNetwork : This section contains information about the geography of the user.
 * sessionId : A unique identifier for this visit to the store.
 * socialEngagementType : Engagement type, either “Socially Engaged” or “Not Socially Engaged”.
 * totals : This section contains aggregate values across the session.
 * trafficSource : This section contains information about the Traffic Source from which the session originated.
 * visitId : An identifier for this session. This is part of the value usually stored as the utmb cookie. This is only unique to the user. For a completely unique ID, you should use a combination of fullVisitorId and visitId.
 * visitNumber : The session number for this user. If this is the first session, then this is set to 1.
 * visitStartTime : The timestamp (expressed as POSIX time).

3 Installation
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you do not have Python installed yet, it is highly recommended that you install the Anaconda distribution of Python, which already has the above packages and more included. This project requires the following Python libraries installed:

* sci-kit learn
<b>conda install scikit-learn<b>

* lightgbm
<b>conda install lightgbm<b>

* xgboost
<b>conda install xgboost<b>
  
# Data Preprocessing
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Some columns namely device,geoNetworkDomain,traficSource,totals in the dataset are in JSON form. We need to convert this JSON columns to tabular format. This is done using ajson_normalize module.

* Created subcolumns for each JSON columns.
* check number of unique values in each column and drop constant columns. This is done using
<b>pd.nunique(dropna=False)<b> 
* Explore the target variable that is <b>totals.transactionRevenue<b>
Feature Engineering
Created new columns (_day,_weekday,_month,_year) from date feature.
created _visitHour feature from the visitStartTime which is given in timestamp format.

